Hi!
We're going to work from an example we already saw in the course: the math function plotter.
So, in this version, you can see that we added some input fields for changing the color
of the curve, for changing the range of the x values, changing interactively
the functions we are going to plot, and so on.
Let's start from the very basic example we saw earlier on the course.
We saw that, the function is located in a "div".
And we just added a "section" tag from HTML5, just to identify the part
of the document where the function is plotted.
Later on, we'll add another "section" about the input fields and the different controls.
You've got also a <body onload="plot();>", that means that when the page is loaded,
we execute a JavaScript function named "plot()", that is located here.
And it uses the "functionPlot()" function from the external library we use.
This one.
And it takes a set of parameters that are located at the beginning of the JavaScript part.
That will indicate, within the target property, the "id" of the div where we are going to plot the function.
In the data property is the function itself: "sin(x)" and its color: red.
So what can we do to improve this?
At first, we can add some CSS code to make this nicer.
I'm going to change the view with CodePen.
So let's resize that, and let's work on the CSS part: "Maximize CSS Editor".
So what I can do, is that I can indicate that the div that contains this function
wil have a rounded border, some shadows and so on.
So now it's rounded, you can have add some shadows, height, margin and so on.
So let's me just copy and paste some code I’ve prepared.
So here we are.
So now, what I've got, is a nicer presentation of the function itself.
Now, I'm going to add a section that will contain the different controllers
that are input fields from HTML5.
So let's do it. I add a section called "plotSettings" that will contains all these controllers.
Let's start for example with a controller for the color.
So here we go.
So, what we added here is a label color value and the color input field from HTML5.
So, if I click here, it asks for a color.
And we can also add an event listener: "onchange="plot(); ».
That means: "when the color has been selected, call the plot() function".
And you remember that this function is the one that plots the mathematical function, here.
The plot function is here.
So what we are going to do in this change color function ?
It changes the property of the parameters here.
So let's add some code for that...
So, how can we get the value of the color from JavaScript before plotting the function?
We are going to use the selector API: "document.querySelector(...)" for the input field whose id is "color".
The value, here, is the color itself.
So what we do is that we are going do use the color for changing this, here.
So "parameters.data"... it's an array.
So 0 is the first index, the first element that corresponds to the part that I highlight now.
.color=color
If I change the color, this line is executed and the color changes.
We can use the same principles with other input fields.
So let me just copy and paste some code I prepared,
that will add all these different controllers.
So, now I've got all the different controllers,
and if you look at them, they all have an "onchange" or "oninput" event listener.
Now, we’ve got 2 sections, 2 HTML sections:
one with an "id="plotSettings"" that corresponds to the different input fields.
And one with an "id="plot"" that corresponds to the function itself (the drawing here).
So, if I want to have a nice look and feel, what I can do is to share the same borders
and shadow properties from CSS,
put the first section with the different input fields on the left and the plot on the right.
So let me just cut and paste some CSS rules here, that will factorize the common properties
for both sections in a section selector.
OK, so what I've got now, is that I've got a nice balanced view of the whole application.